add content to AWS Cognito integration guide (#306)
gobeyondidentity/developer-docs: docs/integration-guides/aws-cognito.md

pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
last_update: 
   date: 8/2/2023
   author: Jen Field
draft: false
doc_type: how-to
displayed_sidebar: mainSidebar
---

This guide provides information on how to set up Beyond Identity as a passwordless authentication provider for an AWS Cognito User Pool.

In this guide you will:
 - Configure Beyond Identity as an OIDC provider for AWS Cognito
 - Configure AWS Cognito as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity

>  - Test the authorization code flow using the Amazon Cognito hosted UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Test the authorization code flow using the Amazon Cognito-hosted UI
```

## Prerequisites
Before configuring OIDC integration between Beyond Identity and AWS Cognito, you must have a Beyond Identity tenant and realm and an AWS user pool.  

### Create your Beyond Identity tenant

1. If you haven't already created your Beyond Identity tenant, [sign up with Beyond Identity to create one for free](https://www.beyondidentity.com/developers/signup).  
2. Now that you have your tenant, go ahead and log in. You can access the Beyond Identity admin console for your tenant at [BI admin console US](https://console-us.beyondidentity.com/login) or [BI admin console EU](https://console-eu.beyondidentity.com/login), depending on the region you chose when you signed up.  
:::tip  
_If you are signing in from a different computer or browser, you can enter the email address you used when you signed up. Beyond Identity will send you a one time link you can use to sign in and enroll a passkey from the new browser._  
:::  

> Next, you will create a new realm and switch to that realm in your tenant. A realm is just a logical grouping that helps you apply policy later.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you'll create a new realm and switch to that realm in your tenant. A realm is just a logical grouping that helps you apply policy later.   
```

### Create a new realm in Beyond Identity

By default you have only the Beyond Identity Admin realm in your  tenant. In this step, you'll create a new realm to hold the app and identities you will create using this guide.   

import CreateRealmConsole from '../includes/_create-realm-console.mdx';

<CreateRealmConsole />

### Create a User Pool in AWS

> The AWS user pool will connect your AWS apps to the Beyond Identity OIDC provider. Follow the steps below to create the user pool.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS user pool connects your AWS apps to the Beyond Identity OIDC provider. Follow the steps below to create the user pool.  
```

1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and choose **User pools**  

> 2. Choose **Create user pool**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create user pool**.

```

> 3. In the **Configure sign-in experience** section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Configure sign-in experience** section, do the following:

```

 - select the Federated identity providers option under **Provider types**
 - select Email under **Cognito user pool sign-in options**
 - under **Federated sign-in options** select OpenID Connect

> 4. In the **Configure security requirements** section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Configure security requirements** section, under **MFA methods**, select Authenticator apps.

```

 - under **MFA methods** select Authenticator apps

> 5. In the **Connect federated identity providers** section, click Skip for now, then click Next. (We will add the OIDC provider after we create it below)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Connect federated identity providers** section, click **Skip for now**, and then click **Next**.  You'll add add the OIDC provider after we create it later.  
```

> 6. In the **Integrate your app** section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the **Integrate your app** section, do the following:

```

 - provide a **User pool name**

>  - under **Domain**, choose Use a Cognito domain under **Domain type**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Under **Domain**, select **Use a Cognito domain** under Domain type.
   
```

 - under **Domain**, enter a domain prefix under **Cognito domain**
 - under **Initial app client** enter an **App client name**

>  - under **Allowed callback URLs** enter a callback URL for your app such as 'http://localhost:3000'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Under **Allowed callback URLs**, enter a callback URL for your app, such as 'http://localhost:3000'.
```

7. In the **Review and sreate** section, click **Create user pool**  

:::note  
Part of the default configuration for your App client is that the **client type** is Public and the **Authentication flow** is ALLOW_USER_SRP_AUTH
:::  

## Configure OIDC between Beyond Identity and AWS

> ### Create AWS as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create AWS as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity

```

> In this section, you will create a resource server and app in your Beyond Identity realm to represent AWS Cognito.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you'll create a resource server and app in your Beyond Identity realm to represent AWS Cognito.
```

### Create a resource server

import AddResourceServerConsole  from '../includes/_add-resource-server-console.mdx';  

<AddResourceServerConsole />

Configure the [resource server](/docs/next/add-resource-server) with the following properties:  

| Parameter | Value|
|---|---|  
| Resource Server Name | any name you choose |

> | Resource Server Identifier |  Enter a unique identifier such as 'awsresourceserver'. This identifier will be included as the audience claim in access tokens minted for your application.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Resource Server Identifier |  Enter a unique identifier such as 'awsresourceserver'. This identifier is included as the audience claim in access tokens minted for your application.  |
```

| Client Type | Enter one or more scopes, such as 'aws:customclaim', pressing Enter after each scope | 

### Create an application

In the same realm, create a new Application that will contain the configuration for your users.

import AddAppAdminConsole  from '../includes/_add-application-console.mdx';

<AddAppAdminConsole />

Configure the [app](/docs/next/add-an-application) with the following properties:  

| Parameter | Value|
|---|---|  
| Display Name | any name you choose |
| Protocol | OIDC |
| Client Type | Confidential | 

> | PKCE | Disabled (Note that PKCE should be used where it is supported, but it is not a requirement for confidential clients.)| 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PKCE | Disabled (It's recommended to use PKCE where it is supported, but it is not a requirement for confidential clients.| 
```

| Redirect URIs | https://your-user-pool-domain/oauth2/idpresponse, where your-user-pool-domain can be found on your AWS User pool's **App integration** tab under **Domain**|   
| Token Endpoint Auth Method | Client Secret Basic | 
| Grant Type | Authorization Code | 

> | Resource Server | select the resource server you created above | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Resource Server | Select the resource server you created above. | 
```

> | Allowed Scopes | select scopes from the set of scopes assigned to the resource server you created above | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Allowed Scopes | Select scopes from the set of scopes assigned to the resource server you created above. | 
```

| Subject  (under **Token Configuration**) | email |  
| Configuration Type (on the **Authenticator Config** tab) | Hosted Web |  

> | all other options | use the default values for the remaining options |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| all other options | Use the default values for the remaining options. |  
```

<br/>  

Click **Submit** to save the app.  

### Add a Federated OIDC IDP to the User Pool in AWS

> In this section, you will configure your AWS user pool with an OIDC connection to the Beyond Identity app you created above.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you'll configure your AWS user pool with an OIDC connection to the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.  
```

> 1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and choose **User pools**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.  
```

> 2. Select user pool you created above  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the user pool you created earlier.
```

> 3. Click **Sign-in experience**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Sign-in experience**.  
```

> 4. Under **Federated identity provider** click **Add identity provider**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Under **Federated identity provider**, click **Add identity provider**.
```

> 5. Under **Identity provider** select OpenID Connect (OIDC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under **Identity provider**, select OpenID Connect (OIDC).
```

>  - Enter a **Provider name** (note that the name cannot have spaces)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Enter a **Provider name** (the name cannot have spaces).
```

>  - For **Client ID**, enter the **Client ID** from the Beyond Identity app you created above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For **Client ID**, enter the **Client ID** from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
```

>  - For **Client secret**, enter the **Client Secret** from the Beyond Identity app you created above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For **Client secret**, enter the **Client Secret** from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
```

>  - for **Authorized scopes** enter `openid` followed by other scopes you wish to request, space delimited, for example `openid aws:customclaim`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For **Authorized scopes**, enter `openid` followed by other scopes you want to request, space delimited, for example, `openid aws:customclaim`.
```

>  - For **Issuer URL** enter the **Issuer** value from the Beyond Identity app you created above  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For **Issuer URL**, enter the **Issuer** value from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
```

> 6. Under **Map attributess...**, for the required attribute 'email', enter **OpenID Connect attribute** `sub`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Under **Map attributes**, for the required attribute 'email', enter **OpenID Connect attribute** `sub`.
```

> 7. Click **Add identity provider**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Add identity provider**.
```

> ## Update Hosted UI to point to the new Federated Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update Hosted UI to point to the new Federated Provider

```

> Now, you will connect your user pool's app client to the OIDC provider you created above.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you'll connect your user pool's app client to the OIDC provider you created earlier.  
```

> 1. Go to [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and choose **User pools**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.  

```

> 2. Select the user pool you created above  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

```

> 3. Click the **App integration** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **App integration** tab.

```

> 4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

```

> 5. Scroll down to **Hosted UI** and click Edit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Scroll down to **Hosted UI** and click Edit.

```

> 6. Under **Identity providers**, in the drop down list for **Select identity providers**. select the federated provider you created above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Under **Identity providers**, in the drop down list for **Select identity providers**. select the federated provider you created earlier.

```

> 7. Click **Save changes**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Save changes**.

```

> ## Test OIDC connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test OIDC connection

```

> Now you will use AWS Cognito's "Hosted UI" test tool to test the integration.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you'll use AWS Cognito's "Hosted UI" test tool to test the integration.  
```

> 1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and choose **User pools**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.

```

> 2. Select the user pool you created above  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

```

> 3. Click the **App integration** tab 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **App integration** tab.

```

> 4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

```

> 5. Under **Hosted UI** click **View Hosted UI** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under **Hosted UI**, click **View Hosted UI**.
```

## Next steps
As a result of the test above, you should have an authorization code returned to your app client's redirect URI, such as 'http://localhost:3000/?code={authorization_code}  

> Next, your app will need to exchange that code for an access token and optionally id token and refresh token.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, your app must exchange that code for an access token, optionally an ID token and a refresh token.  

```

<mark>in process: guidance for code for token exchange and authorization</mark>  

## Reference
See the following articles for more information on the AWS Cognito configuration steps described in this guide:  

> [Adding OIDC identity providers to a user pool](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-oidc-idp.html)   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [Adding OIDC identity providers to a user pool](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-oidc-idp.html)   

```

> [Create a user pool](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pool-as-user-directory.html)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Create a user pool](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pool-as-user-directory.html)  

```

> [Add an app client and set up the hosted UI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-configuring-app-integration.html)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Add an app client and set up the hosted UI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-configuring-app-integration.html)  
```

pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
last_update: 
   date: 8/2/2023
   author: Jen Field
draft: false
doc_type: how-to
displayed_sidebar: mainSidebar
---

This guide provides information on how to set up Beyond Identity as a passwordless authentication provider for an AWS Cognito User Pool.

In this guide, you will:
 - Configure Beyond Identity as an OIDC provider for AWS Cognito
 - Configure AWS Cognito as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity
 - Test the authorization code flow using the Amazon Cognito-hosted UI

## Prerequisites
Before configuring OIDC integration between Beyond Identity and AWS Cognito, you must have a Beyond Identity tenant and realm and an AWS user pool.  

### Create your Beyond Identity tenant

If you still need to create your Beyond Identity tenant, [sign up with Beyond Identity to create one for free](https://www.beyondidentity.com/developers/signup).  

> 2. Now that you have your tenant, log in. You can access the Beyond Identity Admin Console for your tenant at [BI admin console US](https://console-us.beyondidentity.com/login) or [BI admin console EU](https://console-eu.beyondidentity.com/login), depending on the region you chose when you signed up.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

2. Now that you have your tenant, log in. You can access the Beyond Identity Admin Console for your tenant at [BI admin console US](https://console-us.beyondidentity.com/login) or [BI admin console EU](https://console-eu.beyondidentity.com/login), depending on the region you chose when you signed up.   
```

:::  

## Configure OIDC between Beyond Identity and AWS

### Create AWS as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity

In this section, you'll create a resource server and app in your Beyond Identity realm to represent AWS Cognito.

### Create a resource server

import AddResourceServerConsole  from '../includes/_add-resource-server-console.mdx';  

<AddResourceServerConsole />

Configure the [resource server](/docs/next/add-resource-server) with the following properties:  

| Parameter | Value|
|---|---|  
| Resource Server Name | any name you choose |
| Resource Server Identifier |  Enter a unique identifier such as 'awsresourceserver'. This identifier is included as the audience claim in access tokens minted for your application.  |
| Client Type | Enter one or more scopes, such as 'aws:customclaim', pressing Enter after each scope | 

### Create an application

In the same realm, create a new Application containing the configuration for your users.

import AddAppAdminConsole  from '../includes/_add-application-console.mdx';

<AddAppAdminConsole />

> Configure the [app](/docs/next/add-an-application) with the following properties:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure the [app](/docs/next/add-an-application) with the following properties:  
```

> | Parameter | Value|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Parameter | Value|
```

> |---|---|  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |---|---|  
```

> | Display Name | any name you choose |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Display Name | any name you choose |
```

> | Protocol | OIDC |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Protocol | OIDC |
```

> | Client Type | Confidential | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Client Type | Confidential | 
```

> | PKCE | Disabled (It's recommended to use PKCE where it is supported, but it is not a requirement for confidential clients.| 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | PKCE | Disabled (It's recommended to use PKCE where it is supported, but it is not a requirement for confidential clients.| 
```

> | Redirect URIs | https://your-user-pool-domain/oauth2/idpresponse, where your-user-pool-domain can be found on your AWS User pool's **App integration** tab under **Domain**|   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Redirect URIs | https://your-user-pool-domain/oauth2/idpresponse, where your-user-pool-domain can be found on your AWS User pool's **App integration** tab under **Domain**|   
```

> | Token Endpoint Auth Method | Client Secret Basic | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Token Endpoint Auth Method | Client Secret Basic | 
```

> | Grant Type | Authorization Code | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Grant Type | Authorization Code | 
```

> | Resource Server | Select the resource server you created above. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Resource Server | Select the resource server you created above. | 
```

> | Allowed Scopes | Select scopes from the set of scopes assigned to the resource server you created above. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Allowed Scopes | Select scopes from the set of scopes assigned to the resource server you created above. | 
```

> | Subject  (under **Token Configuration**) | email |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Subject  (under **Token Configuration**) | email |  
```

> | Configuration Type (on the **Authenticator Config** tab) | Hosted Web |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Configuration Type (on the **Authenticator Config** tab) | Hosted Web |  
```

> | all other options | Use the default values for the remaining options. |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | all other options | Use the default values for the remaining options. |  
```

<br/>  

> Click **Submit** to save the app.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Submit** to save the app.  
```

pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
last_update: 
   date: 8/2/2023
   author: Jen Field
draft: false
doc_type: how-to
displayed_sidebar: mainSidebar
---

This guide provides information on how to set up Beyond Identity as a passwordless authentication provider for an AWS Cognito User Pool.

In this guide, you will:
 - Configure Beyond Identity as an OIDC provider for AWS Cognito
 - Configure AWS Cognito as an OIDC client in Beyond Identity
 - Test the authorization code flow using the Amazon Cognito-hosted UI

## Prerequisites
Before configuring OIDC integration between Beyond Identity and AWS Cognito, you must have a Beyond Identity tenant and realm and an AWS user pool.  

### Create your Beyond Identity tenant

If you still need to create your Beyond Identity tenant, [sign up with Beyond Identity to create one for free](https://www.beyondidentity.com/developers/signup).  

> 2. Now that you have your tenant, log in. You can access the Beyond Identity Admin Console for your tenant at [BI admin console US](https://console-us.beyondidentity.com/login) or [BI admin console EU](https://console-eu.beyondidentity.com/login), depending on the region you chose when you signed up.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

2. Now that you have your tenant, log in. You can access the Beyond Identity Admin Console for your tenant at [BI admin console US](https://console-us.beyondidentity.com/login) or [BI admin console EU](https://console-eu.beyondidentity.com/login), depending on the region you chose when you signed up.   
```

5. Under **Identity provider**, select OpenID Connect (OIDC).
   - Enter a **Provider name** (the name cannot have spaces).
   - For **Client ID**, enter the **Client ID** from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
   - For **Client secret**, enter the **Client Secret** from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
   - For **Authorized scopes**, enter `openid` followed by other scopes you want to request, space delimited, for example, `openid aws:customclaim`.
   - For **Issuer URL**, enter the **Issuer** value from the Beyond Identity app you created earlier.
6. Under **Map attributes**, for the required attribute 'email', enter **OpenID Connect attribute** `sub`.
7. Click **Add identity provider**.

## Update Hosted UI to point to the new Federated Provider

Now, you'll connect your user pool's app client to the OIDC provider you created earlier.  

1. Go to [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.  

2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

3. Click the **App integration** tab.

4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

5. Scroll down to **Hosted UI** and click Edit.

> 6. Under **Identity providers**, in the drop down list for **Select identity providers**. select the federated provider you created earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Under **Identity providers**, in the drop down list for **Select identity providers**, select the federated provider you created earlier.
```

7. Click **Save changes**.

## Test OIDC connection

Now you'll use AWS Cognito's "Hosted UI" test tool to test the integration.  

1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.

2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

3. Click the **App integration** tab.

4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

5. Under **Hosted UI**, click **View Hosted UI**.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As a result of the test above, you should have an authorization code returned to your app client's redirect URI, such as 'http://localhost:3000/?code={authorization_code}'.

```

## Next steps

> As a result of the test above, you should have an authorization code returned to your app client's redirect URI, such as 'http://localhost:3000/?code={authorization_code}  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

6. Under **Map attributes**, for the required attribute 'email', enter **OpenID Connect attribute** `sub`.
7. Click **Add identity provider**.

## Update Hosted UI to point to the new Federated Provider

Now, you'll connect your user pool's app client to the OIDC provider you created earlier.  

1. Go to [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.  

2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

3. Click the **App integration** tab.

4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

5. Scroll down to **Hosted UI** and click Edit.

6. Under **Identity providers**, in the drop down list for **Select identity providers**, select the federated provider you created earlier.

7. Click **Save changes**.

## Test OIDC connection

Now you'll use AWS Cognito's "Hosted UI" test tool to test the integration.  

1. Go to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito/home) and select **User pools**.

2. Select the user pool you created earlier.

3. Click the **App integration** tab.

4. Scroll down to **App client list** and select your App client.

5. Under **Hosted UI**, click **View Hosted UI**.

> As a result of the test above, you should have an authorization code returned to your app client's redirect URI, such as 'http://localhost:3000/?code={authorization_code}'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result of this test, you should have an authorization code returned to your app client's redirect URI, such as 'http://localhost:3000/?code={authorization_code}'.
```
